<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>CHAPTER XX</h2>
			<p>YES⁠—Doctor Ardmore was in, admitted the desk in the lobby, but it was to be doubted if he could be seen⁠ ⁠… Yes⁠—so very busy to-day⁠ ⁠… Mrs. Hudson?⁠ ⁠… She was still living⁠ ⁠… Would he sit down?⁠ ⁠… The desk was sympathetic.</p>
			<p>Bobby nervously scribbled a message.</p>
			<p>“Take that card to Doctor Ardmore,” he commanded, “and make sure he gets it!”</p>
			<p>In a few minutes a stocky, greying man of forty-five came quickly down the corridor and reached out his hand.</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—I’m Ardmore. Only to-day we were speaking of you, Doctor Merrick. This is indeed a great pleasure⁠ ⁠… Now⁠—you have come about your countrywoman, Mrs. Hudson⁠ ⁠… My friend, I fear we are not to save her⁠ ⁠… No⁠—nothing has been done yet⁠ ⁠… Too soon⁠—you will understand⁠ ⁠… Cerebral concussion⁠ ⁠… Donelli must wait a little⁠ ⁠… He thinks to-night it may be safe to try⁠ ⁠… but he has no hope⁠ ⁠… Conscious? Oh⁠—fitfully; partially. We have had her quieted, you know⁠ ⁠… She is aware that she is totally blind⁠—I am sure of that.”</p>
			<p>“Then the contusion covers the occipital lobes!”</p>
			<p>“Exactly! Squarely on the back of the head! Very deep lesion!⁠ ⁠… Then there are the fractured ribs. That’s bad too. Lowers the resistance⁠ ⁠… Donelli had decided at noon that it was useless to attempt the head operation, but now he’s going into it⁠ ⁠… He does not see too many of these cases⁠ ⁠… I could wish⁠—but⁠—my God, man! <i>You’re</i> here! You shall do it! Donelli will be very grateful!”</p>
			<p>Bobby’s heart was pounding.</p>
			<p>“You really think he might want me to?”</p>
			<p>“Want you? He’ll say you’re a godsend! Donelli’s an excellent surgeon, but he does not specialize. You’ll win his everlasting appreciation!⁠ ⁠… Come⁠—we will go to your patient⁠ ⁠… I shall be responsible for Donelli’s full approval⁠ ⁠… Come⁠—please.”</p>
			<p>“Just a moment, Doctor Ardmore,” said Bobby, tugging loose from the arm that was propelling him down the corridor. “I have something to say to you before I see Mrs. Hudson. Let us go some place where we may talk privately.”</p>
			<p>Ardmore led the way into a small parlour.</p>
			<p>“I think you ought to know,” said Bobby, “that this young woman’s life is more to me than of professional concern; more than might be implied by the fact that we are fellow countrymen and acquaintances⁠ ⁠… I have had hopes of making her my wife.”</p>
			<p>“My word!⁠—What a situation!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, isn’t it? Now, I’ll tell you the rest of it. We have had a very serious misunderstanding. That is to say⁠—she is misunderstanding me. That being the case⁠—perhaps it would be much better, in the event she has an interval of consciousness, that she be left unaware that I am her surgeon.”</p>
			<p>“But,” objected Ardmore, “might not that fact put a little more resistance into her?”</p>
			<p>“Not the kind we want.”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—you ought to know⁠ ⁠… I shall tell the nurse and endeavour to keep your identity secret.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was the droop of her mouth that brought the scalding tears to Bobby’s eyes. For a moment he thought he couldn’t bear it.</p>
			<p>Ardmore, observing how deeply he was affected, felt some concern. This was not an affair into which an operating surgeon dared to fetch his emotions. He gripped the visitor’s shoulder with five vice-like fingers and muttered, “Steady! You’re her doctor; not her lover!”</p>
			<p>He motioned the nurse to follow him out into the hall and left Bobby alone with his patient. She roused slightly, drew a short, painfully interrupted sigh that made her wince; the lips tightened momentarily, and relaxed again into the pensive droop.</p>
			<p>Booby took the hand that lay on the white counterpane and held it in both of his. There was the very faintest imaginable pressure in her fingers. Dear little chap! She was at least vaguely aware of a friendly handclasp, no matter where it came from. That was that much⁠—anyhow!</p>
			<p>The door opened and Ardmore returned with the nurse whose eyes sparkled. She shared an important secret.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you would like to make an examination, doctor,” said Ardmore.</p>
			<p>Bobby nodded. The nurse led him to a wash room and found him a smock and gloves.</p>
			<p>The patient was placed in position and the temporary bandages were removed. Bobby stood stunned at the sight. It was, as Ardmore had said, very, very deep. He gave a quick, almost articulate intake of breath as he touched it⁠ ⁠… Again the English doctor’s strong fingers gathered up a large handful of his young colleague’s shoulder and growled, “Remember! She’s your <i>patient</i>!”</p>
			<p>“There’s nothing to be gained by waiting,” said Bobby. “Send for Doctor Donelli, please. We will go into this as soon as he arrives.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was six o’clock when Helen was laid upon the operating table, and seven-thirty when she was transferred again to the wheeled bed on which she had come.</p>
			<p>During that hour and a half, Bobby Merrick, by a supreme effort of his will, was a brain surgeon, and Helen Hudson was a patient⁠—a case⁠—a precariously difficult occipital contusion.</p>
			<p>When they had wheeled her in, he feared for a moment he would be unable to achieve that professional attitude. He hesitated, before making his first incision, as he might have hesitated had the scalpel been aimed at his own heart. Once that deft stroke had been accomplished, he was all surgeon.</p>
			<p>Donelli stood by, attentively, gently sponging away the blood; marvelling at the uncanny accuracy with which the veins were clipped with forceps almost before they had a chance to signal their location; regarding with envious admiration the swiftness and sureness of those slim, strong, experienced fingers.</p>
			<p>Twice Merrick had glanced up anxiously into the eyes of the anaesthetist⁠—it was no small matter to be conducting ether into those pummelled lungs⁠—but, apparently satisfied with what he read there, applied himself with renewed concentration to his task.</p>
			<p>It was a terrific strain, and the little group in the operating room was strangely silent. By common consent it was understood that a moving drama was being enacted here⁠—a tragedy, perhaps. Any breath might be her last. That would depend upon the skill of the surgeon. Life and death here were to be determined by the promptness and accuracy of decisions in the removal of the clots. Too deep meant death; not deep enough meant blindness for life!</p>
			<p>When the operation was all but finished, Donelli inquired, with an entreating look and a hand outstretched for the needle, if he might not do the scalp stitches; but Merrick shook his head.</p>
			<p>The little procession crowded through the door. Bobby walked shakily into the adjacent dressing room; sat down on a white enamelled stool, his shoulders slumped; and contemplated his hands⁠ ⁠… Her blood!⁠ ⁠… Donelli and a nurse helped him off with his rubber gloves and out of his smock. The impulsive Italian himself insisted on mopping his guest’s face with a cold towel, eager to show his sympathy. It had been the most stirring event of his experience in a vocation singularly exposed to dramatic situations.</p>
			<p>They tried, a little later, to persuade Merrick to eat something, but his dinner consisted of a stiff drink of brandy which he gulped greedily as a toper. It was useless to argue with him. He was determined to go at once to his patient’s bedside and wait results.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—there’s nothing you can do,” expostulated Ardmore. “It will be hours before you can determine anything more than you know now, unless⁠—of course⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Exactly!” muttered Merrick. “It’s the <i>unless</i> that concerns me!⁠ ⁠… That⁠—and the threat of a quick pneumonia.”</p>
			<p>Donelli and Ardmore went to dinner. As they parted at the hospital gate, the Italian said, “It’s too much to hope for. Our young friend will be deeply grieved. But⁠—it was a masterful piece of work!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Her room was in semi-darkness, but Merrick’s eyes, once they were accustomed to the gloom, caressed the loveliness of her face. He had not bandaged her eyes. They were closed; and the long black lashes⁠—incredibly long lashes⁠—made heavy shadows on her darkly flushed cheeks. Her breathing was regular, quiet⁠—almost too quiet, at times, and he would rise from his chair by the window and move anxiously toward the bed, his nerves keyed to the breaking point.</p>
			<p>Mostly he sat resting his elbows on his knees with his chin in his hands, staring at her face, occasionally rousing when a longer breath, exhaled shudderingly, would bring him to her side, his stethoscope intent.</p>
			<p>About midnight, he took a turn up and down in the corridor, and upon re-entering the room, whispered into Julie Craig’s ear:</p>
			<p>“Is her clothing in that closet?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, doctor⁠ ⁠… Can I help you?”</p>
			<p>He shook his head, stepped to the wardrobe, and after some search brought out a soiled and torn blue gown, fumbled at the neck of it, and, having found what he sought, restored the garment to the closet and closed the door.</p>
			<p>Julie Craig watched him interestedly as he sat toying with the bit of jewellery he had abstracted from his patient’s clothing. Doubtless it was one of his gifts to her. There was some delicious secret connected with it. She wished she knew.</p>
			<p>After a while, he rose, and, bending over her, whispered:</p>
			<p>“You may go out and take a bit of exercise. I shall call you if you are needed.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Dawn was breaking. The little clock ticked energetically on the bureau. Birds twittered sleepily, outside the window. Bells tolled matins.</p>
			<p>There was a weary sigh from the bed. Julie Craig bent over it, solicitously.</p>
			<p>And then, in that dear voice, curiously like a muted ’cello, between hysterical little sobs, Bobby Merrick’s patient murmured:</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—Blessed God⁠—<i>I can see</i>!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
